hello everyone and welcome to this
week's Stellar  developer me
week's Stellar developer me
if you  were joining us last week you
if you were joining us last week you
would  have seen orbit lens  I
would have seen orbit lens I
invited him back again because we had so
much to cover last time that we didn't
go through everything we we wanted and
so obit Lance has actually built
quite a few  projects on on stellar
quite a few projects on on stellar
and and one of them  I'm sure you're
and and one of them I'm sure you're
very familiar with is is still our
expert so we're going to cover that a
little bit today  but first   we
little bit today but first we
will hear more about sell broker so yeah
just please just introduce yourself
again I know introduced you last week
but for new people on here please go
ahead and introduce yourself yeah sure
hello everyone
everybody knows me as orbit LS  I'm
everybody knows me as orbit LS I'm
the lead of Stellar expert team  we're
the lead of Stellar expert team we're
building different infrastructure
services on Stellar Network
and  basically today I'd like to
and basically today I'd like to
talk about two of them  Stellar broker
talk about two of them Stellar broker
yeah so  Stellar broker is a
yeah so Stellar broker is a
multisource  liquidity swap tool
multisource liquidity swap tool
and swap rotor for
Stellar  currently  star star has
Stellar currently star star has
several issues
with fragmented liquidity basically
it leads to worse price for end users
complexity using varas
protocols  and  as a result  it's
protocols and as a result it's
quite difficult to find the best price
between all of them  because some
between all of them because some
assets are located mainly on classic
Stellar decks and others on new protocol
imms  but someone executes  like
imms but someone executes like
large trade if someone trades a scale
usually  such large volume trades are
usually such large volume trades are
vulnerable to  front
vulnerable to front
running  and  front running actually
running and front running actually
leads to profit loss on
multiart trades because  splitting
multiart trades because splitting
each trade into several
smaller trades  results in a
smaller trades results in a
situation when somebody can front run
your Swap and try
to try to be faster and extract The
Profit  and of course there is simply
Profit and of course there is simply
the question of liquidity because  I
the question of liquidity because I
do remember there was a situation where
people couldn't simply
swap on chain and execute the settlement
for about 100,000 usdc in one trade
with
one  pass payment trate  which is
one pass payment trate which is
also not the best user
experience  so we've been working
experience so we've been working
on the project called U Stellar broker
with
the with a team from  Ultra stellar
the with a team from Ultra stellar
so  our original idea was  to
so our original idea was to
implement the solution that will cover
everything in one  in one  One Stop
everything in one in one One Stop
when you  that will allow you to
when you that will allow you to
swap  anything and  execute your
swap anything and execute your
transactions on chain classic and
San  it provides a lot of benefits
San it provides a lot of benefits
for and users providing better
exchange rates  front running
exchange rates front running
protection and  on large trades  it
protection and on large trades it
will it will lead to the minimal price
impact  non-custodial swaps  allow
impact non-custodial swaps allow
us to avoid  centralization issues
us to avoid centralization issues
and
also  there is no need  to
also there is no need to
retry failed transactions because
everything will be retried automatically
and even if the swap fails for some
reasons for example liquidity isn't
there
anymore  then  the system will
anymore then the system will
propose a new  like  a new trade
propose a new like a new trade
opportunity which will be automatically
executed  for applications  that
executed for applications that
want to integrate  our service
want to integrate our service
we can offer revenue from user
swaps  reliable execution flow
swaps reliable execution flow
seamless  API integration  which
seamless API integration which
means that you just  connected to your
means that you just connected to your
existing wallet and  it will work just
existing wallet and it will work just
fine and of course it's  a fling the
fine and of course it's a fling the
complexity of  building for two
complexity of building for two
different Networks like classic andoran
which is a bit separated despite that
it's under the
same  Stellar network grof  and
same Stellar network grof and
like managing multiple connections to
various  swap
various swap
protocols  so  partner   which
protocols so partner which
connects to the system  can view
connects to the system can view
the  Revenue
the Revenue
and  receive payouts for the swaps
and receive payouts for the swaps
executed by the users  this kind of
executed by the users this kind of
monetizations benefits and users and
developers alike because  users still
developers alike because users still
get better rates and  developers can
get better rates and developers can
receive like micro bonuses from these
transactions from their user base  the
transactions from their user base the
integration will be pretty is
straightforward  we already published
straightforward we already published
the SDK for it  and everything you
the SDK for it and everything you
will need you'll just need to insert AP
from the website and  from this
from the website and from this
point  will work will just work and as
point will work will just work and as
a hood it's much more complex than
than it looks because
it works with varas  liquidity
it works with varas liquidity
pools on the  San  So currently we
pools on the San So currently we
have  Aquarius and S SW pools
have Aquarius and S SW pools
connected at our production
website  and  we also have two more
website and we also have two more
pools in the pipeline which expected
to come next week it will be  forx Hub
to come next week it will be forx Hub
and  it will be  comment pool  so
and it will be comment pool so
our execution engine like finds
the best opportunities  and  first
the best opportunities and first
of all  analyzes how the trade can be
of all analyzes how the trade can be
split into many multiple trades
because  executing several different
because executing several different
trades instead of one large transaction
means that there are chances
to to get front run or to just
end up with a failed transaction
because  the market is always a
because the market is always a
dynamic scene it's moving a lot and
it's virtually impossible to guess which
liquidity will be there like in the next
Ledger  so our engine fls all the
Ledger so our engine fls all the
complexity here  because  it
complexity here because it
provides tracking of submitted
transactions  it automatically
transactions it automatically
connects  to Sellar core  fetching
connects to Sellar core fetching
all the required information from there
and  we basically can basically have
and we basically can basically have
the entire  graph of all
the entire graph of all
available Dex  orders there  in
available Dex orders there in
memory and  of course  graph for
memory and of course graph for
soran
tools  this is   everything is
tools this is everything is
located  in the same place and
located in the same place and
provides you a very convenient interface
on top of web soet  API which is
on top of web soet API which is
pretty fast  we made some measurements
pretty fast we made some measurements
and  like average quart response time
and like average quart response time
is less than 300 milliseconds  which
is less than 300 milliseconds which
is very fast and  usually  like our
is very fast and usually like our
nod receives updates and send it to user
like more than two seconds  faster
like more than two seconds faster
than  Horizon because  we  connect
than Horizon because we connect
directly to Stellar core to receive
all the trade information as  as fast
all the trade information as as fast
as possible and  we can execute
as possible and we can execute
like multiple trade simulation per
seconds it's tens of thousands it scales
well
with paralyzation of CPU threats  so
with paralyzation of CPU threats so
it means that  getting more
it means that getting more
simulations  results in
simulations results in
better  price quotes for end
better price quotes for end
users  so that's basically pretty much
users so that's basically pretty much
all of it  I just wanted to say that
all of it I just wanted to say that
is it is already connected
to  albida
to albida
wallet and  we're working
wallet and we're working
to connected to
stellar and other Ultra Stellar
applications  if you are interested
applications if you are interested
interested to try it  to play around
interested to try it to play around
just let us know and let's talk
any wallet or
like  application that  works
like application that works
with user trades U can benefit from this
optimized transaction execution flow so
just let us know  probably if if we
just let us know probably if if we
have any questions in the chat I'll be
happy to
answer yeah let's  let's see if
answer yeah let's let's see if
there's any
any questions in the
chat  there was one about public
chat there was one about public
facing  docks I think  I've shared a
facing docks I think I've shared a
link to to GitHub  is there anything
link to to GitHub is there anything
else  people can go look
else people can go look
at  yeah it's
at yeah it's
basically  the J Hub link and
basically the J Hub link and
currently it's the npm package which
shows   the example of connection to
shows the example of connection to
the to the system so that's basically
everything you need  to integrate
everything you need to integrate
great I think it's super interesting
also and not not just because of the the
the ease of use but also the speed and
and and the fact that you can bring
bring bring the swap in on on your own
application and and and decide what what
fee you're going to charge for for for
doing the the swap so super interesting
if we don't have any other questions
we can also see if we have some time
at the end of it of it
but  we can move to Stella expert and
but we can move to Stella expert and
that should be a tool that is known by
most Stella developers  it was
most Stella developers it was
probably the first tool I started using
trying to verify that my transactions
were going through and just playing
around with with different
different  Quest and
different Quest and
onboarding games so  so yeah it's I I
onboarding games so so yeah it's I I
think it's familiar to most so be
interesting to hear from the creator of
it yeah  happy to hear that  and
it yeah happy to hear that and
that's the tool that been around for
years and I'd like to thank you for all
the users that keep up with us and
despite  sometimes U arise in small
despite sometimes U arise in small
bugs  problems with it   we're
bugs problems with it we're
trying to keep it
as as functional as it could be and
today I'd like to talk a bit about
smart contract stats and  analyzes of
smart contract stats and analyzes of
smart contract transactions  because
smart contract transactions because
we've been receiving some questions
by email and other communication
channels  on how it works and I think
channels on how it works and I think
it might be interes in not only for
newcomers but also for season developers
still  so first of all  how can you
still so first of all how can you
get  to the transaction and how can
get to the transaction and how can
you find something you just need to copy
paste like account address contract
address or proit name into the search
box on the website and will lead you
directly  to the the account or
directly to the the account or
contract history  where you can see
contract history where you can see
this list of
transactions  here you can see
transactions here you can see
operation type and  like execution
operation type and like execution
date  to check a particular
date to check a particular
operation you just need to click this
small   small arrow and  it will
small small arrow and it will
present you the expanded view  I know
present you the expanded view I know
it's a bit
scary  but no need to panic  it's
scary but no need to panic it's
only from the first glance we'll go
through it and it will be
quite there is nothing too complex about
it  first of all  it shows the C
it first of all it shows the C
tree  of the top level contract
tree of the top level contract
invocations  so we have  this
invocations so we have this
level contract
that can invoke some other contracts and
provide
[Music]
additional  functionality through
additional functionality through
this  when you click  this  info
this when you click this info
icon  you can see  the expanded view
icon you can see the expanded view
of the contract function itself  it
of the contract function itself it
automatically shows you parameters of
the function
return
value
like version of the runtime and
SDK and  if  developers
SDK and if developers
left  Commander then  you will also
left Commander then you will also
see this  R commands in this
see this R commands in this
section  debit  and credit records
section debit and credit records
show  the amount of token
show the amount of token
which have been
transferred like spent received in the
trans during the transaction
execution  so we can see here for
execution so we can see here for
example that  this amount of tokens
example that this amount of tokens
has been debited from this account and
credited to another
account
contracts  can save the data on The
contracts can save the data on The
Ledger with  different storage
Ledger with different storage
retention options so like in
data is  basically the data that is
data is basically the data that is
inside the contract itself  and every
inside the contract itself and every
time
like the environment loads the
instance of the contract it also loads
all the data attached to it resistent
entries stored
separately  and temporary items  can
separately and temporary items can
be used to  store some cheap temporary
be used to store some cheap temporary
information that can be easily
evicted
additionally  some contracts May
additionally some contracts May
emit events
which is U this mechanism is intended
for publishing  data for
for publishing data for
indexers  the event consist of the
indexers the event consist of the
header of the event and some arbitrary
contract
data  so  these  events can be
data so these events can be
further analyzed by indexers by
rpcs or some other
applications  and at the bottom  of
applications and at the bottom of
the invocation you can see  what
the invocation you can see what
happens  on the system level so like
happens on the system level so like
input output  memory usage
input output memory usage
Ledger entries written and U read and
many other
very low  very low level statistics
very low very low level statistics
and  additional of course here you can
and additional of course here you can
see also fees charged for these
particular
transactions  which can be analyzed
transactions which can be analyzed
further  now if we   scale up a
further now if we scale up a
bit  we have a contract view  if you
bit we have a contract view if you
just click
the address of any contract you will end
up here  at the contract View and it
up here at the contract View and it
will display like the general summary of
the contract and  current contract
the contract and current contract
balances  this is I think
balances this is I think
is is a liquidity pool contract that
holds   xlm and you DC
holds xlm and you DC
assets  we have here the information
assets we have here the information
who created the
contract  and  there was some hash
contract and there was some hash
of the contract also it was pretty
active contract that made a lot of
transfers  data storage here  shows
transfers data storage here shows
the number of  entries  that have
the number of entries that have
been
written and stored on
chain  below it  you can see the
chain below it you can see the
detailed breakdown of
all the ocation stats here you can
play around with functions  selecting
play around with functions selecting
some spe specific function  you want
some spe specific function you want
to
analyze choose the period  for starts
analyze choose the period for starts
and
analyze some specific  statistics
analyze some specific statistics
so for example if you want to know why
these grew up after the recent
deployment you can see it here you can
see how this value change over time and
how to analyze them  history tab we
how to analyze them history tab we
already talked about iter and the
interface tab  contains  the list of
interface tab contains the list of
public experts from the contract it's
like functions   all the structures
like functions all the structures
enams everything that is declared in the
contract and publicly available all the
contract interfaces here  and it's
contract interfaces here and it's
quite handy tool if you want to build a
transaction using CLI or any other Tool
or you just maybe want to
play around Vis it  and  check
play around Vis it and check
what's inside the contract  here is
what's inside the contract here is
also the link  for downloading the
also the link for downloading the
contract  contract was and
contract contract was and
here is the next interface  which
here is the next interface which
shows the the list of stor data entries
for some particular
contract  here we can see  the that
contract here we can see the that
the entry is persistent or not it's
TTL value so time to leave  when
TTL value so time to leave when
the last it was updated  and
the last it was updated and
balances attached to these
values
and  one more thing that I'd like
and one more thing that I'd like
to cover  probably not everybody knows
to cover probably not everybody knows
about this functionality but  we have
about this functionality but we have
protocol versions history  in the
protocol versions history in the
interface  it's under the main menu
interface it's under the main menu
section and  in the protocols history
section and in the protocols history
you can see  changes  that were
you can see changes that were
applied to
the to The Ledger  during prodal
the to The Ledger during prodal
upgrades and of also during suran
runtime F changes
updates  it's  the lowlevel view of
updates it's the lowlevel view of
what happens  when validators vote for
what happens when validators vote for
increas in limits and  basically here
increas in limits and basically here
you can easily check and say what are
our current limits  and  what was
our current limits and what was
the last update  and what changed
the last update and what changed
during  I have a lot of more to cover
during I have a lot of more to cover
but let's wrap at it because I think
that  we have already few minutes left
that we have already few minutes left
so if you have any question questions
let
St yeah thank you for for the run
through  I I
through I I
definitely have learned a little bit I'm
I'm still a pretty basic user but but I
think it's it's it's a very it's it's
very practical to to be able to see
something like the the protocol upgrades
I think there's a lot of good
features for for debuging and for for
evaluating your your contracts do we
have any questions from
from the comments I don't see
that  I don't think so but  yeah
that I don't think so but yeah
let's
see there's one
here
something about combining plastic and
soron is this  in the context of
soron is this in the context of
Stellar
expert yes so  we already show
the transaction history and trades and
everything for classic
operations  but  trades history and
operations but trades history and
some specific for example liquidity pool
stats or  for example blend pool stats
stats or for example blend pool stats
they are still unavailable because
like right now we still have  the
like right now we still have the
process of  standardization in
process of standardization in
progress  so right now  the
progress so right now the
committee is talking about  moving to
committee is talking about moving to
some more
more obvious standards for
publishing for example events  what
publishing for example events what
will be the format of these events and
how they can be further analyzed by
Downstream systems to produce all the
DAT  it it should be available soon in
DAT it it should be available soon in
Star expert all the price history all
the stats from surban
Contrition okay great I think that's all
we have time for today thank you for for
joining again thank you for inviting
this was really interesting I I love to
see some of the community build tools
it's it's a it was a pleasure to to chat
to you again and  yeah if anyone else
to you again and yeah if anyone else
has some some questions I'm sure they
can they can reach out to you on on
Discord but  yeah definitely for
Discord but yeah definitely for
joining and thank you all this thank you
okay thank you bye bye